So hopefully now you've got
something that looks a bit like
this.
Your 3 polygons for the
protected areas, your point data
that you created from the table
and the two tables down here the
sightings and sheet one which is
the environment data.
So let's right click on this and
click open to see the table.
In this table we've got 3
columns.
The first one is the unique key
and this is the same as we had
in the other table.
So it's a different number for
each GPS point, which is each
row in our table.
The next column is environment.
We can see that there's lots of
different types of environment.
The Hippogriffs are being
spotted in Grassland, Primary
Forest, Secondary Forest, Farm
and village and the last column
was automatically inputted by
Arc GIS Pro and it is an object
ID which is a number for each
row.
Now let's take a look at the
table for our point data.
So right click on the points in
your contents and click
Attribute Table.
So as we remembered, this table
also has a column for the unique
key of each GPS point.
So again we've got a row for
each GPS point which is each
sighting the location of each
sighting.
So that's the same for both
tables.
So for example, GPS one in our
point table is the same as GPS
one in our environment table.
So this means that the data is
related and what we can do is
join the environment data to our
point data layer so that we have
it all in the same place.
So to do that we're going to add
a join to our Hippogriff
sightings data layer.
So we're going to right click on
this in our contents, go down to
where it says joins and relates
and then click on add Join.
And then in the tool window that
comes up, we need to put in our
parameters.
So our input table is the table
where we want the information to
join into and so that's our
hippogriff sightings, our point
data layer.
And then for input join field
and for join table field In
these boxes we want to put in
the columns from each table that
can be used to join the data
together.
So this is our unique key column
because we have this column in
each of our tables.
So we can leave these both as
unique key.
And for join table it's what
table we want to join to our
point data layer.
And so that's sheet one as
that's the environment data.
And now we just need to hit OK
and we can check our table for
our point data layer to see if
the join has been successful.
And if we scroll across we can
see that we now have a column
for environment within our
hippogriff sightings point data
layer table.
So now that means that each
point on our map can show us
where a sighting happened, but
also the type of sighting and
the environment in which it
occurred in.
So that's great, we've added the
data in.
But when you add a join to save
the data into the layer, you
need to export that layer.
So we need to right click on our
Hippogriff Sightings layer, go
into Data and click on Export
Features.
Our input features is our
Hippogriff Sightings point
layer.
So we can leave this how it is.
And then the box underneath is
where we want to save this layer
to.
So click on the browse icon and
we're going to save it in our
Geo database for this project.
So go into your Geo database and
then we'll call this layer
Sightings Environment points.
Click save and then click OK and
that will create a new layer
that has the join saves within
it.
So you should be able to see
that new layer in your contents
now, and we can just turn off
the other point layer as we
don't need that anymore and just
remember to hit save to save our
progress.